superset-frontend/temporary_superset_ui/superset-ui/plugins/superset-ui-plugins/README.md, before:

# @superset-ui/plugins 🔌💡

[![Codecov branch](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://codecov.io/gh/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/branch/master)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/master.svg?style=flat-square
)](https://travis-ci.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins)
[![David](https://img.shields.io/david/dev/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins.svg?style=flat-square)](https://david-dm.org/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins?type=dev)
[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/d2c78390-752e-4fc2-abf0-7e6df362b9ff/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/superset-ui-plugins/deploys)

`@superset-ui/legacy-*` packages are extracted from the classic [Apache Superset](https://github.com/apache/incubator-superset) and converted into plugins.
These packages are extracted with minimal changes (almost as-is). They also depend on legacy API (`viz.py`) to function.

`@superset-ui/plugin-*` packages are newer and has higher quality in general.

We are not accepting pull requests for new community-contributed plugins to be merged into this repository at the moment.
We will keep it lean for now to improve the standard and reduce operational load on maintenance.
Bug fixes are welcome.

In the future, we plan to have a template for new repository or generator for everybody to setup a single plugin repository easily on his/her own.
This way anybody can create and publish a Superset plugin.

## Demo (Storybook)

Most recent release: https://apache-superset.github.io/superset-ui-plugins/

Current master: https://superset-ui-plugins.netlify.com

## Packages

| Package | Version | Note |
|--|--|--|
| [@superset-ui/plugin-chart-word-cloud](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-plugin-chart-word-cloud) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/plugin-chart-word-cloud.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/plugin-chart-word-cloud.svg?style=flat-square) | |
| [@superset-ui/preset-chart-xy](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-preset-chart-xy) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/preset-chart-xy.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/preset-chart-xy.svg?style=flat-square) | experimental |

| Package | Version |
|--|--|
| [@superset-ui/legacy-preset-chart-big-number](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-preset-chart-big-number) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-preset-chart-big-number.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-preset-chart-big-number.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-preset-chart-nvd3](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-preset-chart-nvd3) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-preset-chart-nvd3.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-preset-chart-nvd3.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-calendar](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-calendar) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-calendar.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-calendar.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-chord](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-chord) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-chord.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-chord.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-country-map](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-country-map) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-country-map.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-country-map.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-event-flow](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-event-flow) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-event-flow.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-event-flow.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-force-directed](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-force-directed) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-force-directed.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-force-directed.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-heatmap](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-heatmap) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-heatmap.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-heatmap.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-histogram](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-histogram) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-histogram.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-histogram.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-horizon](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-horizon) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-horizon.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-horizon.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-iframe](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-iframe) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-iframe.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-iframe.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-markup](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-markup) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-markup.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-markup.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-map-box](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-map-box) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-map-box.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-map-box.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-paired-t-test](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-paired-t-test) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-paired-t-test.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-paired-t-test.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-parallel-coordinates](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-parallel-coordinates) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-parallel-coordinates.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-parallel-coordinates.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-partition](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-partition) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-partition.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-partition.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-pivot-table](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-pivot-table) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-pivot-table.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-pivot-table.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-rose](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-rose) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-rose.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-rose.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sankey](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-sankey) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sankey.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sankey.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sankey-loop](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-sankey-loop) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sankey-loop.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sankey-loop.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sunburst](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-sunburst) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sunburst.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sunburst.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-table](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-table) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-table.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-table.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-treemap](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-treemap) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-treemap.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-treemap.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-word-cloud](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-word-cloud) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-word-cloud.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-word-cloud.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-world-map](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-world-map) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-world-map.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-world-map.svg?style=flat-square) |

### Development

[lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna/) and [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com) are used to manage versions and dependencies between
packages in this monorepo.

```
superset-ui/
  lerna.json
  package.json
  ...
  packages/
    package1/
      package.json
      ...
      src/
      test/
      ...
      lib/
      esm/
      ...
    ...
```

### Installation

1. clone this repo
2. have yarn install package dependencies and manage the symlinking between packages for you

```sh
git clone ...superset-ui-plugins && cd superset-ui-plugins
yarn install
yarn build
```

### Builds, linting, and testing

Each package defines its own build config, linting, and testing. You can have lerna run commands
across all packages using the syntax `yarn run test` (or `yarn run test:watch` for watch mode) from the root `@superset-ui` directory.

#### Storybook

You can demo your changes by running the storybook demo locally with the following commands:

```sh
yarn install
yarn build
cd packages/superset-ui-plugins-demo
yarn storybook
```

### Committing

This repository follows [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.3/) guideline for commit messages and has a `commitlint` hook which will require you to have the valid commit message before committing. You can use `npm run commit` to help you create a commit message.

### Publishing

**Prerequisite:** You'll need an [npmjs.com](https://npmjs.com) account that is part of the `@superset-ui` organization.

1. Make sure you're logged in to NPM from your shell. Run `npm login` if necessary.
2. To make the release, run `yarn run release` and follow the prompts.

### License

Apache-2.0

Commit message:

build: automate build & launch of storybook (#146)
* build: automate build & launch of storybook

- Added `build.py` in the `/packages/superset-ui-plugins-demo` directory
	- Running `build.py` will build & start storybook automatically
	- No need to run 4 separate commands to do so

- Modified README.md to reflect this change and provide instructions on
using `build.py`

* build: delete build.py

Get rid of build.py and transfer commands for
automated building & launching to package.json

* build: automate build & launch of storybook

Use "sudo npm run build" to build & launch Storybook

* docs: update readme

Reflect changes in automated building & launching
of Storybook, now uses command "npm run build"
instead of "python build.py"

* build: rename npm script

rename npm script from "build" to "storybook" and update readme.md to reflect change

* docs: amend error in docs

documentation updated to reflect changes in package.json - command to run story

* docs: change 'npm run' to 'yarn'

replace 'npm run storybook' with 'yarn storybook'

superset-frontend/temporary_superset_ui/superset-ui/plugins/superset-ui-plugins/README.md, after:

# @superset-ui/plugins 🔌💡

[![Codecov branch](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://codecov.io/gh/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/branch/master)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/master.svg?style=flat-square
)](https://travis-ci.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins)
[![David](https://img.shields.io/david/dev/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins.svg?style=flat-square)](https://david-dm.org/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins?type=dev)
[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/d2c78390-752e-4fc2-abf0-7e6df362b9ff/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/superset-ui-plugins/deploys)

`@superset-ui/legacy-*` packages are extracted from the classic [Apache Superset](https://github.com/apache/incubator-superset) and converted into plugins.
These packages are extracted with minimal changes (almost as-is). They also depend on legacy API (`viz.py`) to function.

`@superset-ui/plugin-*` packages are newer and has higher quality in general.

We are not accepting pull requests for new community-contributed plugins to be merged into this repository at the moment.
We will keep it lean for now to improve the standard and reduce operational load on maintenance.
Bug fixes are welcome.

In the future, we plan to have a template for new repository or generator for everybody to setup a single plugin repository easily on his/her own.
This way anybody can create and publish a Superset plugin.

## Demo (Storybook)

Most recent release: https://apache-superset.github.io/superset-ui-plugins/

Current master: https://superset-ui-plugins.netlify.com

## Packages

| Package | Version | Note |
|--|--|--|
| [@superset-ui/plugin-chart-word-cloud](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-plugin-chart-word-cloud) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/plugin-chart-word-cloud.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/plugin-chart-word-cloud.svg?style=flat-square) | |
| [@superset-ui/preset-chart-xy](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-preset-chart-xy) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/preset-chart-xy.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/preset-chart-xy.svg?style=flat-square) | experimental |

| Package | Version |
|--|--|
| [@superset-ui/legacy-preset-chart-big-number](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-preset-chart-big-number) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-preset-chart-big-number.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-preset-chart-big-number.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-preset-chart-nvd3](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-preset-chart-nvd3) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-preset-chart-nvd3.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-preset-chart-nvd3.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-calendar](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-calendar) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-calendar.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-calendar.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-chord](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-chord) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-chord.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-chord.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-country-map](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-country-map) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-country-map.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-country-map.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-event-flow](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-event-flow) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-event-flow.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-event-flow.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-force-directed](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-force-directed) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-force-directed.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-force-directed.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-heatmap](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-heatmap) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-heatmap.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-heatmap.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-histogram](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-histogram) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-histogram.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-histogram.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-horizon](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-horizon) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-horizon.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-horizon.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-iframe](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-iframe) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-iframe.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-iframe.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-markup](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-markup) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-markup.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-markup.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-map-box](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-map-box) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-map-box.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-map-box.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-paired-t-test](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-paired-t-test) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-paired-t-test.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-paired-t-test.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-parallel-coordinates](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-parallel-coordinates) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-parallel-coordinates.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-parallel-coordinates.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-partition](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-partition) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-partition.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-partition.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-pivot-table](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-pivot-table) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-pivot-table.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-pivot-table.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-rose](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-rose) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-rose.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-rose.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sankey](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-sankey) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sankey.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sankey.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sankey-loop](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-sankey-loop) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sankey-loop.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sankey-loop.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sunburst](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-sunburst) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sunburst.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-sunburst.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-table](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-table) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-table.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-table.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-treemap](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-treemap) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-treemap.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-treemap.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-word-cloud](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-word-cloud) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-word-cloud.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-word-cloud.svg?style=flat-square) |
| [@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-world-map](https://github.com/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins/tree/master/packages/superset-ui-legacy-plugin-chart-world-map) | [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-world-map.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/legacy-plugin-chart-world-map.svg?style=flat-square) |

### Development

[lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna/) and [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com) are used to manage versions and dependencies between
packages in this monorepo.

```
superset-ui/
  lerna.json
  package.json
  ...
  packages/
    package1/
      package.json
      ...
      src/
      test/
      ...
      lib/
      esm/
      ...
    ...
```

### Installation

1. clone this repo
2. have yarn install package dependencies and manage the symlinking between packages for you

```sh
git clone ...superset-ui-plugins && cd superset-ui-plugins
yarn install
yarn build
```

### Builds, linting, and testing

Each package defines its own build config, linting, and testing. You can have lerna run commands
across all packages using the syntax `yarn run test` (or `yarn run test:watch` for watch mode) from the root `@superset-ui` directory.

#### Storybook

You can demo your changes by running the storybook demo locally with the following commands:

```sh
yarn install
yarn build
cd packages/superset-ui-plugins-demo
yarn storybook:run
```

Alternatively, you can demo your changes by using the following command while in `packages/superset-ui-plugins-demo`:

```sh
yarn storybook
```

### Committing

This repository follows [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.3/) guideline for commit messages and has a `commitlint` hook which will require you to have the valid commit message before committing. You can use `npm run commit` to help you create a commit message.

### Publishing

**Prerequisite:** You'll need an [npmjs.com](https://npmjs.com) account that is part of the `@superset-ui` organization.

1. Make sure you're logged in to NPM from your shell. Run `npm login` if necessary.
2. To make the release, run `yarn run release` and follow the prompts.

### License

Apache-2.0
