superset-frontend/temporary_superset_ui/superset-ui/plugins/superset-ui-plugins/packages/superset-ui-preset-chart-xy/README.md, before:

## @superset-ui/preset-chart-xy

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/preset-chart-xy.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/preset-chart-xy.svg?style=flat-square)
[![David (path)](https://img.shields.io/david/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins.svg?path=packages%2Fsuperset-ui-preset-chart-xy&style=flat-square)](https://david-dm.org/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins?path=packages/superset-ui-preset-chart-xy)

This plugin provides Box Plot for Superset.

### Usage

Configure `key`, which can be any `string`, and register the plugin. This `key` will be used to lookup this chart throughout the app.

```js
import { BoxPlotChartPlugin } from '@superset-ui/preset-chart-xy';

new BoxPlotChartPlugin()
  .configure({ key: 'box-plot' })
  .register();
```

Then use it via `SuperChart`. See [storybook](https://apache-superset.github.io/superset-ui-plugins/?selectedKind=plugin-chart-box-plot) for more details.

```js
<SuperChart
  chartType="box-plot"
  chartProps={{
    width: 600,
    height: 600,
    formData: {...},
    payload: {
      data: {...},
    },
  }}
/>
```

Commit message:

feat: line chart with revised encodeable utilities (#26)
* feat: line chart

* feat: implement scale extraction

* refactor: no error

* fix: handle null

* fix: nicing and demo

* fix: legend and demo

* fix: remove commented code

* fix: clean

* fix: reviewer comments

* fix: legend and series

* docs: make demos tsx

* fix: reactnode

* fix: label angle

* fix: resolve labelxxx field names

* docs: try knobs

* feat: improve axis

* refactor: combine computelayout into axisagent

* refactor: cleaner use of scale

* fix: proptypes

superset-frontend/temporary_superset_ui/superset-ui/plugins/superset-ui-plugins/packages/superset-ui-preset-chart-xy/README.md, after:

## @superset-ui/preset-chart-xy

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/preset-chart-xy.svg?style=flat-square)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@superset-ui/preset-chart-xy.svg?style=flat-square)
[![David (path)](https://img.shields.io/david/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins.svg?path=packages%2Fsuperset-ui-preset-chart-xy&style=flat-square)](https://david-dm.org/apache-superset/superset-ui-plugins?path=packages/superset-ui-preset-chart-xy)

This plugin provides basic charts on cartesian coordinates (Line, Box Plot) for Superset.

> DISCLAIMER: It is still under heavy development and the APIs are subject to changes.

### Usage

Configure `key`, which can be any `string`, and register the plugin. This `key` will be used to lookup this chart throughout the app.

```js
import { BoxPlotChartPlugin } from '@superset-ui/preset-chart-xy';

new BoxPlotChartPlugin()
  .configure({ key: 'box-plot' })
  .register();
```

Then use it via `SuperChart`. See [storybook](https://apache-superset.github.io/superset-ui-plugins/?selectedKind=plugin-chart-box-plot) for more details.

```js
<SuperChart
  chartType="box-plot"
  chartProps={{
    width: 600,
    height: 600,
    formData: {...},
    payload: {
      data: {...},
    },
  }}
/>
```
