docs/src/pages/docs/Connecting to Databases/index.mdx, before:

---
name: Install Database Drivers
menu: Connecting to Databases
route: /docs/databases/installing-database-drivers
index: 0
version: 1
---

## Install Database Drivers

Superset requires a Python database driver to be installed for each additional type of database you
want to connect to.

Superset interacts with the underlying databases using the provided SQL interface (often times
through a SQLAlchemy library).

### Supported Databases and Dependecies

Superset does not ship bundled with connectivity to databases, except for Sqlite, which is part of the Python standard library. You’ll need to install the required packages for the database you want to use as your metadata database as well as the packages needed to connect to the databases you want to access through Superset.

A list of some of the recommended packages.

| Database | PyPI package | Connection String  |
| --- | --- | --- |
|[Amazon Athena](/docs/databases/athena)|```pip install "PyAthenaJDBC>1.0.9``` , ```pip install "PyAthena>1.2.0``` | ```awsathena+rest://{aws_access_key_id}:{aws_secret_access_key}@athena.{region_name}.amazonaws.com/{ ```|
|[Amazon Redshift](/docs/databases/redshift)|```pip install sqlalchemy-redshift```| ``` redshift+psycopg2://<userName>:<DBPassword>@<AWS End Point>:5439/<Database Name>``` |
|[Apache Drill](/docs/databases/drill)|```pip install sqlalchemy-drill```| ```drill+sadrill:// For JDBC drill+jdbc://``` |
|[Apache Druid](/docs/databases/druid)|```pip install pydruid```| ```druid://<User>:<password>@<Host>:<Port-default-9088>/druid/v2/sql``` |
|[Apache Hive](/docs/databases/hive)|```pip install pyhive```|```hive://hive@{hostname}:{port}/{database}```|
|[Apache Impala](/docs/databases/impala)|```pip install impala```|```impala://{hostname}:{port}/{database}```|
|[Apache Kylin](/docs/databases/kylin)|```pip install kylinpy```|```kylin://<username>:<password>@<hostname>:<port>/<project>?<param1>=<value1>&<param2>=<value2>```|
|[Apache Pinot](/docs/databases/pinot)|```pip install pinotdb```|```pinot+http://CONTROLLER:5436/ query?server=http://CONTROLLER:5983/```|
|[Apache Solr](/docs/databases/solr)|```pip install sqlalchemy-solr```|```solr://{username}:{password}@{hostname}:{port}/{server_path}/{collection}```
|[Apache Spark SQL](/docs/databases/spark)|```pip install pyhive```|```hive://hive@{hostname}:{port}/{database}```
|[Azure MS SQL](/docs/databases/sqlserver)||```mssql+pymssql://UserName@presetSQL:TestPassword@presetSQL.database.windows.net:1433/TestSchema```
|[Big Query](/docs/databases/bigquery)|```pip install pybigquery```|```bigquery://{project_id}```|
|[ClickHouse](/docs/databases/clickhouse)|```pip install sqlalchemy-clickhouse```|```clickhouse://{username}:{password}@{hostname}:{port}/{database}```|
|[CockroachDB](/docs/databases/cockroachdb)|```pip install cockroachdb```|```cockroachdb://root@{hostname}:{port}/{database}?sslmode=disable```|
|[Dremio](/docs/databases/dremio)|```pip install sqlalchemy_dremio```|```dremio://user:pwd@host:31010/```|
|[Elasticsearch](/docs/databases/elasticsearch)|```pip install elasticsearch-dbapi```|```elasticsearch+http://{user}:{password}@{host}:9200/```|
|[Exasol](/docs/databases/exasol)|```pip install sqlalchemy-exasol```|```exa+pyodbc://{username}:{password}@{hostname}:{port}/my_schema?CONNECTIONLCALL=en_US.UTF-8&driver=EXAODBC```|
|[Google Sheets](/docs/databases/google-sheets)|```pip install gsheetsdb```|```gsheets://```|
|[IBM Db2](/docs/databases/ibm-db2)|```pip install ibm_db_sa```|```db2+ibm_db://```|
|[MySQL](/docs/databases/mysql)|```pip install mysqlclient```|```mysql://<UserName>:<DBPassword>@<Database Host>/<Database Name>```|
|[Oracle](/docs/databases/oracle)|```pip install cx_Oracle```|```oracle://```|
|[PostgreSQL](/docs/databases/postgresql)|```pip install psycopg2```|```postgresql://<UserName>:<DBPassword>@<Database Host>/<Database Name>```|
|[Presto](/docs/databases/presto)|```pip install pyhive```|```presto://```|
|[SAP Hana](/docs/databases/hana)|```pip install hdbcli sqlalchemy-hana or pip install apache-superset[hana]```|```hana://{username}:{password}@{host}:{port}```|
|[Snowflake](/docs/databases/snowflake)|```pip install snowflake-sqlalchemy```|```snowflake://{user}:{password}@{account}.{region}/{database}?role={role}&warehouse={warehouse}```|
|SQLite||```sqlite://```|
|[SQL Server](/docs/databases/sqlserver)|```pip install pymssql```|```mssql://```|
|[Teradata](/docs/databases/teradata)|```pip install sqlalchemy-teradata```|```teradata://{user}:{password}@{host}```|
|[Vertica](/docs/databases/vertica)|```pip install sqlalchemy-vertica-python```|```vertica+vertica_python://<UserName>:<DBPassword>@<Database Host>/<Database Name>```|

***

Note that many other databases are supported, the main criteria being the existence of a functional SqlAlchemy dialect and Python driver. Googling the keyword sqlalchemy in addition of a keyword that describes the database you want to connect to should get you to the right place.

If your database or data engine isn't on the list but a SQL interface
exists, please file an issue on the
[Superset GitHub repo](https://github.com/apache/superset/issues), so we can work on
supporting it.

[StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/apache-superset+superset) and the
[Superset community Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/apache-superset/shared_invite/zt-l5f5e0av-fyYu8tlfdqbMdz_sPLwUqQ)
are great places to get help with connecting to databases in Superset.

In the end, you should be looking for a Python package compatible with your database. One part that
makes database driver installation tricky is the fact that local binaries are sometimes required in
order for them to bind properly, which means that various apt packages might need to be installed
before pip can get things set up.

Commit message:

docs: Updates to Superset Site for 1.0 (#12626)
* incorporating precommit logic

* add 1.0 page

* fixed annoying docz config issue 2

* tweaked indentation

* added asf link 2

* changed Dockerhub link

* reverted frontend package lock json: precommit

docs/src/pages/docs/Connecting to Databases/index.mdx, after:

---
name: Installing Database Drivers
menu: Connecting to Databases
route: /docs/databases/installing-database-drivers
index: 0
version: 1
---

## Install Database Drivers

Superset requires a Python DB-API database driver and a SQLAlchemy dialect to be installed for each datastore you want to connect to.

You can read more [here](/docs/databases/dockeradddrivers) about how to install new database drivers into your Superset configuration.

### Supported Databases and Dependencies

Superset does not ship bundled with connectivity to databases, except for SQLite, which is part of the Python standard library. You’ll need to install the required packages for the database you want to use as your metadata database as well as the packages needed to connect to the databases you want to access through Superset.

A list of some of the recommended packages.

| Database | PyPI package | Connection String  |
| --- | --- | --- |
|[Amazon Athena](/docs/databases/athena)|```pip install "PyAthenaJDBC>1.0.9``` , ```pip install "PyAthena>1.2.0``` | ```awsathena+rest://{aws_access_key_id}:{aws_secret_access_key}@athena.{region_name}.amazonaws.com/{ ```|
|[Amazon Redshift](/docs/databases/redshift)|```pip install sqlalchemy-redshift```| ``` redshift+psycopg2://<userName>:<DBPassword>@<AWS End Point>:5439/<Database Name>``` |
|[Apache Drill](/docs/databases/drill)|```pip install sqlalchemy-drill```| ```drill+sadrill:// For JDBC drill+jdbc://``` |
|[Apache Druid](/docs/databases/druid)|```pip install pydruid```| ```druid://<User>:<password>@<Host>:<Port-default-9088>/druid/v2/sql``` |
|[Apache Hive](/docs/databases/hive)|```pip install pyhive```|```hive://hive@{hostname}:{port}/{database}```|
|[Apache Impala](/docs/databases/impala)|```pip install impala```|```impala://{hostname}:{port}/{database}```|
|[Apache Kylin](/docs/databases/kylin)|```pip install kylinpy```|```kylin://<username>:<password>@<hostname>:<port>/<project>?<param1>=<value1>&<param2>=<value2>```|
|[Apache Pinot](/docs/databases/pinot)|```pip install pinotdb```|```pinot+http://CONTROLLER:5436/ query?server=http://CONTROLLER:5983/```|
|[Apache Solr](/docs/databases/solr)|```pip install sqlalchemy-solr```|```solr://{username}:{password}@{hostname}:{port}/{server_path}/{collection}```
|[Apache Spark SQL](/docs/databases/spark)|```pip install pyhive```|```hive://hive@{hostname}:{port}/{database}```
|[Azure MS SQL](/docs/databases/sql-server)|```pip install pymssql``` |```mssql+pymssql://UserName@presetSQL:TestPassword@presetSQL.database.windows.net:1433/TestSchema```
|[Big Query](/docs/databases/bigquery)|```pip install pybigquery```|```bigquery://{project_id}```|
|[ClickHouse](/docs/databases/clickhouse)|```pip install sqlalchemy-clickhouse```|```clickhouse://{username}:{password}@{hostname}:{port}/{database}```|
|[CockroachDB](/docs/databases/cockroachdb)|```pip install cockroachdb```|```cockroachdb://root@{hostname}:{port}/{database}?sslmode=disable```|
|[Dremio](/docs/databases/dremio)|```pip install sqlalchemy_dremio```|```dremio://user:pwd@host:31010/```|
|[Elasticsearch](/docs/databases/elasticsearch)|```pip install elasticsearch-dbapi```|```elasticsearch+http://{user}:{password}@{host}:9200/```|
|[Exasol](/docs/databases/exasol)|```pip install sqlalchemy-exasol```|```exa+pyodbc://{username}:{password}@{hostname}:{port}/my_schema?CONNECTIONLCALL=en_US.UTF-8&driver=EXAODBC```|
|[Google Sheets](/docs/databases/google-sheets)|```pip install gsheetsdb```|```gsheets://```|
|[IBM Db2](/docs/databases/ibm-db2)|```pip install ibm_db_sa```|```db2+ibm_db://```|
|[MySQL](/docs/databases/mysql)|```pip install mysqlclient```|```mysql://<UserName>:<DBPassword>@<Database Host>/<Database Name>```|
|[Oracle](/docs/databases/oracle)|```pip install cx_Oracle```|```oracle://```|
|[PostgreSQL](/docs/databases/postgresql)|```pip install psycopg2```|```postgresql://<UserName>:<DBPassword>@<Database Host>/<Database Name>```|
|[Presto](/docs/databases/presto)|```pip install pyhive```|```presto://```|
|[SAP Hana](/docs/databases/hana)|```pip install hdbcli sqlalchemy-hana or pip install apache-superset[hana]```|```hana://{username}:{password}@{host}:{port}```|
|[Snowflake](/docs/databases/snowflake)|```pip install snowflake-sqlalchemy```|```snowflake://{user}:{password}@{account}.{region}/{database}?role={role}&warehouse={warehouse}```|
|SQLite||```sqlite://```|
|[SQL Server](/docs/databases/sql-server)|```pip install pymssql```|```mssql://```|
|[Teradata](/docs/databases/teradata)|```pip install sqlalchemy-teradata```|```teradata://{user}:{password}@{host}```|
|[Vertica](/docs/databases/vertica)|```pip install sqlalchemy-vertica-python```|```vertica+vertica_python://<UserName>:<DBPassword>@<Database Host>/<Database Name>```|

***

Note that many other databases are supported, the main criteria being the existence of a functional
SQLAlchemy dialect and Python driver. Searching for the keyword "sqlalchemy + (database name)"
should help get you to the right place.

If your database or data engine isn't on the list but a SQL interface
exists, please file an issue on the
[Superset GitHub repo](https://github.com/apache/superset/issues), so we can work on documenting and
supporting it.

[StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/apache-superset+superset) and the
[Superset community Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/apache-superset/shared_invite/zt-l5f5e0av-fyYu8tlfdqbMdz_sPLwUqQ)
are great places to get help with connecting to databases in Superset.
