docs/src/pages/docs/installation/configuring.mdx, before:

---
name: Configuring Superset
menu: Installation and Configuration
route: /docs/installation/configuring-superset
index: 3
version: 1
---

## Configuring Superset

### Configuration

To configure your application, you need to create a file `superset_config.py` and add it to your
`PYTHONPATH`. Here are some of the parameters you can set in that file:

```
# Superset specific config
ROW_LIMIT = 5000

SUPERSET_WEBSERVER_PORT = 8088

# Flask App Builder configuration
# Your App secret key
SECRET_KEY = '\2\1thisismyscretkey\1\2\e\y\y\h'

# The SQLAlchemy connection string to your database backend
# This connection defines the path to the database that stores your
# superset metadata (slices, connections, tables, dashboards, ...).
# Note that the connection information to connect to the datasources
# you want to explore are managed directly in the web UI
SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI = 'sqlite:////path/to/superset.db'

# Flask-WTF flag for CSRF
WTF_CSRF_ENABLED = True
# Add endpoints that need to be exempt from CSRF protection
WTF_CSRF_EXEMPT_LIST = []
# A CSRF token that expires in 1 year
WTF_CSRF_TIME_LIMIT = 60 * 60 * 24 * 365

# Set this API key to enable Mapbox visualizations
MAPBOX_API_KEY = ''
```

All the parameters and default values defined in
[https://github.com/apache/superset/blob/master/superset/config.py](https://github.com/apache/superset/blob/master/superset/config.py)
can be altered in your local `superset_config.py`. Administrators will want to read through the file
to understand what can be configured locally as well as the default values in place.

Since `superset_config.py` acts as a Flask configuration module, it can be used to alter the
settings Flask itself, as well as Flask extensions like `flask-wtf`, `flask-caching`, `flask-migrate`,
and `flask-appbuilder`. Flask App Builder, the web framework used by Superset, offers many
configuration settings. Please consult the
[Flask App Builder Documentation](https://flask-appbuilder.readthedocs.org/en/latest/config.html)
for more information on how to configure it.

Make sure to change:

- `SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI`: by default it is stored at ~/.superset/superset.db
- `SECRET_KEY`: to a long random string

If you need to exempt endpoints from CSRF (e.g. if you are running a custom auth postback endpoint),
you can add the endpoints to `WTF_CSRF_EXEMPT_LIST`:

```
WTF_CSRF_EXEMPT_LIST = [‘’]
```

### Running on a WSGI HTTP Server

While you can run Superset on NGINX or Apache, we recommend using Gunicorn in async mode. This
enables impressive concurrency even and is fairly easy to install and configure. Please refer to the
documentation of your preferred technology to set up this Flask WSGI application in a way that works
well in your environment. Here’s an async setup known to work well in production:

```
      -w 10 \
      -k gevent \
      --timeout 120 \
      -b  0.0.0.0:6666 \
      --limit-request-line 0 \
      --limit-request-field_size 0 \
      --statsd-host localhost:8125 \
      "superset.app:create_app()"
```

Refer to the [Gunicorn documentation](https://docs.gunicorn.org/en/stable/design.html) for more
information. _Note that the development web server (`superset run` or `flask run`) is not intended
for production use._

If you're not using Gunicorn, you may want to disable the use of `flask-compress` by setting
`COMPRESS_REGISTER = False` in your `superset_config.py`.

### Configuration Behind a Load Balancer

If you are running superset behind a load balancer or reverse proxy (e.g. NGINX or ELB on AWS), you
may need to utilize a healthcheck endpoint so that your load balancer knows if your superset
instance is running. This is provided at `/health` which will return a 200 response containing “OK”
if the the webserver is running.

If the load balancer is inserting `X-Forwarded-For/X-Forwarded-Proto` headers, you should set
`ENABLE_PROXY_FIX = True` in the superset config file (`superset_config.py`) to extract and use the
headers.

In case the reverse proxy is used for providing SSL encryption, an explicit definition of the
`X-Forwarded-Proto` may be required. For the Apache webserver this can be set as follows:

```
RequestHeader set X-Forwarded-Proto "https"
```

### Custom OAuth2 Configuration

Beyond FAB supported providers (Github, Twitter, LinkedIn, Google, Azure, etc), its easy to connect
Superset with other OAuth2 Authorization Server implementations that support “code” authorization.

Make sure the pip package [`Authlib`](https://authlib.org/) is installed on the webserver.

First, configure authorization in Superset `superset_config.py`.

```python
AUTH_TYPE = AUTH_OAUTH
OAUTH_PROVIDERS = [
    {   'name':'egaSSO',
        'token_key':'access_token', # Name of the token in the response of access_token_url
        'icon':'fa-address-card',   # Icon for the provider
        'remote_app': {
            'client_id':'myClientId',  # Client Id (Identify Superset application)
            'client_secret':'MySecret', # Secret for this Client Id (Identify Superset application)
            'client_kwargs':{
                'scope': 'read'               # Scope for the Authorization
            },
            'access_token_method':'POST',    # HTTP Method to call access_token_url
            'access_token_params':{        # Additional parameters for calls to access_token_url
                'client_id':'myClientId'
            },
            'access_token_headers':{    # Additional headers for calls to access_token_url
                'Authorization': 'Basic Base64EncodedClientIdAndSecret'
            },
            'api_base_url':'https://myAuthorizationServer/oauth2AuthorizationServer/',
            'access_token_url':'https://myAuthorizationServer/oauth2AuthorizationServer/token',
            'authorize_url':'https://myAuthorizationServer/oauth2AuthorizationServer/authorize'
        }
    }
]

# Will allow user self registration, allowing to create Flask users from Authorized User
AUTH_USER_REGISTRATION = True

# The default user self registration role
AUTH_USER_REGISTRATION_ROLE = "Public"
```

Then, create a `CustomSsoSecurityManager` that extends `SupersetSecurityManager` and overrides
`oauth_user_info`:

```python
import logging
from superset.security import SupersetSecurityManager

class CustomSsoSecurityManager(SupersetSecurityManager):

    def oauth_user_info(self, provider, response=None):
        logging.debug("Oauth2 provider: {0}.".format(provider))
        if provider == 'egaSSO':
            # As example, this line request a GET to base_url + '/' + userDetails with Bearer  Authentication,
    # and expects that authorization server checks the token, and response with user details
            me = self.appbuilder.sm.oauth_remotes[provider].get('userDetails').data
            logging.debug("user_data: {0}".format(me))
            return { 'name' : me['name'], 'email' : me['email'], 'id' : me['user_name'], 'username' : me['user_name'], 'first_name':'', 'last_name':''}
    ...
```

This file must be located at the same directory than `superset_config.py` with the name
`custom_sso_security_manager.py`. Finally, add the following 2 lines to `superset_config.py`:

```
from custom_sso_security_manager import CustomSsoSecurityManager
CUSTOM_SECURITY_MANAGER = CustomSsoSecurityManager
```

**Notes**

- The redirect URL will be `https://<superset-webserver>/oauth-authorized/<provider-name>`
  When configuring an OAuth2 authorization provider if needed. For instance, the redirect URL will
  be `https://<superset-webserver>/oauth-authorized/egaSSO` for the above configuration.

- If an OAuth2 authorization server supports OpenID Connect 1.0, you could configure its configuration
  document URL only without providing `api_base_url`, `access_token_url`, `authorize_url` and other
  required options like user info endpoint, jwks uri etc. For instance:
  ```python
  OAUTH_PROVIDERS = [
    {   'name':'egaSSO',
        'token_key':'access_token', # Name of the token in the response of access_token_url
        'icon':'fa-address-card',   # Icon for the provider
        'remote_app': {
            'client_id':'myClientId',  # Client Id (Identify Superset application)
            'client_secret':'MySecret', # Secret for this Client Id (Identify Superset application)
            'server_metadata_url': 'https://myAuthorizationServer/.well-known/openid-configuration'
        }
    }
  ]
  ```

### Feature Flags

To support a diverse set of users, Superset has some features that are not enabled by default. For
example, some users have stronger security restrictions, while some others may not. So Superset
allow users to enable or disable some features by config. For feature owners, you can add optional
functionalities in Superset, but will be only affected by a subset of users.

You can enable or disable features with flag from `superset_config.py`:

```python
FEATURE_FLAGS = {
    'CLIENT_CACHE': False,
    'ENABLE_EXPLORE_JSON_CSRF_PROTECTION': False,
    'PRESTO_EXPAND_DATA': False,
}
```

A current list of feature flags can be found in `RESOURCES/FEATURE_FLAGS.md`

### SIP 15

[Superset Improvement Proposal 15](https://github.com/apache/superset/issues/6360) aims to
ensure that time intervals are handled in a consistent and transparent manner for both the Druid and
SQLAlchemy connectors.

Prior to SIP-15 SQLAlchemy used inclusive endpoints however these may behave like exclusive for
string columns (due to lexicographical ordering) if no formatting was defined and the column
formatting did not conform to an ISO 8601 date-time (refer to the SIP for details).

To remedy this rather than having to define the date/time format for every non-IS0 8601 date-time
column, once can define a default column mapping on a per database level via the `extra` parameter:

```
{
    "python_date_format_by_column_name": {
        "ds": "%Y-%m-%d"
    }
}
```

**New Deployments**

All new deployments should enable SIP-15 by setting this value in `superset_config.py`:

```
SIP_15_ENABLED = True

```

**Existing Deployments**

Given that it is not apparent whether the chart creator was aware of the time range inconsistencies
(and adjusted the endpoints accordingly) changing the behavior of all charts is overly aggressive.
Instead SIP-15 proivides a soft transistion allowing producers (chart owners) to see the impact of
the proposed change and adjust their charts accordingly.

Prior to enabling SIP-15, existing deployments should communicate to their users the impact of the
change and define a grace period end date (exclusive of course) after which all charts will conform
to the [start, end) interval.

```python
from dateime import date

SIP_15_ENABLED = True
SIP_15_GRACE_PERIOD_END = date(<YYYY>, <MM>, <DD>)
```

To aid with transparency the current endpoint behavior is explicitly called out in the chart time
range (post SIP-15 this will be [start, end) for all connectors and databases). One can override the
defaults on a per database level via the `extra` parameter.

```python
{
    "time_range_endpoints": ["inclusive", "inclusive"]
}
```

Note in a future release the interim SIP-15 logic will be removed (including the
`time_grain_endpoints` form-data field) via a code change and Alembic migration.

Commit message:

docs: document FLASK_APP_MUTATOR (#16286)

docs/src/pages/docs/installation/configuring.mdx, after:

---
name: Configuring Superset
menu: Installation and Configuration
route: /docs/installation/configuring-superset
index: 3
version: 1
---

## Configuring Superset

### Configuration

To configure your application, you need to create a file `superset_config.py` and add it to your
`PYTHONPATH`. Here are some of the parameters you can set in that file:

```
# Superset specific config
ROW_LIMIT = 5000

SUPERSET_WEBSERVER_PORT = 8088

# Flask App Builder configuration
# Your App secret key
SECRET_KEY = '\2\1thisismyscretkey\1\2\e\y\y\h'

# The SQLAlchemy connection string to your database backend
# This connection defines the path to the database that stores your
# superset metadata (slices, connections, tables, dashboards, ...).
# Note that the connection information to connect to the datasources
# you want to explore are managed directly in the web UI
SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI = 'sqlite:////path/to/superset.db'

# Flask-WTF flag for CSRF
WTF_CSRF_ENABLED = True
# Add endpoints that need to be exempt from CSRF protection
WTF_CSRF_EXEMPT_LIST = []
# A CSRF token that expires in 1 year
WTF_CSRF_TIME_LIMIT = 60 * 60 * 24 * 365

# Set this API key to enable Mapbox visualizations
MAPBOX_API_KEY = ''
```

All the parameters and default values defined in
[https://github.com/apache/superset/blob/master/superset/config.py](https://github.com/apache/superset/blob/master/superset/config.py)
can be altered in your local `superset_config.py`. Administrators will want to read through the file
to understand what can be configured locally as well as the default values in place.

Since `superset_config.py` acts as a Flask configuration module, it can be used to alter the
settings Flask itself, as well as Flask extensions like `flask-wtf`, `flask-caching`, `flask-migrate`,
and `flask-appbuilder`. Flask App Builder, the web framework used by Superset, offers many
configuration settings. Please consult the
[Flask App Builder Documentation](https://flask-appbuilder.readthedocs.org/en/latest/config.html)
for more information on how to configure it.

Make sure to change:

- `SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI`: by default it is stored at ~/.superset/superset.db
- `SECRET_KEY`: to a long random string

If you need to exempt endpoints from CSRF (e.g. if you are running a custom auth postback endpoint),
you can add the endpoints to `WTF_CSRF_EXEMPT_LIST`:

```
WTF_CSRF_EXEMPT_LIST = [‘’]
```

### Running on a WSGI HTTP Server

While you can run Superset on NGINX or Apache, we recommend using Gunicorn in async mode. This
enables impressive concurrency even and is fairly easy to install and configure. Please refer to the
documentation of your preferred technology to set up this Flask WSGI application in a way that works
well in your environment. Here’s an async setup known to work well in production:

```
      -w 10 \
      -k gevent \
      --timeout 120 \
      -b  0.0.0.0:6666 \
      --limit-request-line 0 \
      --limit-request-field_size 0 \
      --statsd-host localhost:8125 \
      "superset.app:create_app()"
```

Refer to the [Gunicorn documentation](https://docs.gunicorn.org/en/stable/design.html) for more
information. _Note that the development web server (`superset run` or `flask run`) is not intended
for production use._

If you're not using Gunicorn, you may want to disable the use of `flask-compress` by setting
`COMPRESS_REGISTER = False` in your `superset_config.py`.

### Configuration Behind a Load Balancer

If you are running superset behind a load balancer or reverse proxy (e.g. NGINX or ELB on AWS), you
may need to utilize a healthcheck endpoint so that your load balancer knows if your superset
instance is running. This is provided at `/health` which will return a 200 response containing “OK”
if the the webserver is running.

If the load balancer is inserting `X-Forwarded-For/X-Forwarded-Proto` headers, you should set
`ENABLE_PROXY_FIX = True` in the superset config file (`superset_config.py`) to extract and use the
headers.

In case the reverse proxy is used for providing SSL encryption, an explicit definition of the
`X-Forwarded-Proto` may be required. For the Apache webserver this can be set as follows:

```
RequestHeader set X-Forwarded-Proto "https"
```

### Custom OAuth2 Configuration

Beyond FAB supported providers (Github, Twitter, LinkedIn, Google, Azure, etc), its easy to connect
Superset with other OAuth2 Authorization Server implementations that support “code” authorization.

Make sure the pip package [`Authlib`](https://authlib.org/) is installed on the webserver.

First, configure authorization in Superset `superset_config.py`.

```python
AUTH_TYPE = AUTH_OAUTH
OAUTH_PROVIDERS = [
    {   'name':'egaSSO',
        'token_key':'access_token', # Name of the token in the response of access_token_url
        'icon':'fa-address-card',   # Icon for the provider
        'remote_app': {
            'client_id':'myClientId',  # Client Id (Identify Superset application)
            'client_secret':'MySecret', # Secret for this Client Id (Identify Superset application)
            'client_kwargs':{
                'scope': 'read'               # Scope for the Authorization
            },
            'access_token_method':'POST',    # HTTP Method to call access_token_url
            'access_token_params':{        # Additional parameters for calls to access_token_url
                'client_id':'myClientId'
            },
            'access_token_headers':{    # Additional headers for calls to access_token_url
                'Authorization': 'Basic Base64EncodedClientIdAndSecret'
            },
            'api_base_url':'https://myAuthorizationServer/oauth2AuthorizationServer/',
            'access_token_url':'https://myAuthorizationServer/oauth2AuthorizationServer/token',
            'authorize_url':'https://myAuthorizationServer/oauth2AuthorizationServer/authorize'
        }
    }
]

# Will allow user self registration, allowing to create Flask users from Authorized User
AUTH_USER_REGISTRATION = True

# The default user self registration role
AUTH_USER_REGISTRATION_ROLE = "Public"
```

Then, create a `CustomSsoSecurityManager` that extends `SupersetSecurityManager` and overrides
`oauth_user_info`:

```python
import logging
from superset.security import SupersetSecurityManager

class CustomSsoSecurityManager(SupersetSecurityManager):

    def oauth_user_info(self, provider, response=None):
        logging.debug("Oauth2 provider: {0}.".format(provider))
        if provider == 'egaSSO':
            # As example, this line request a GET to base_url + '/' + userDetails with Bearer  Authentication,
    # and expects that authorization server checks the token, and response with user details
            me = self.appbuilder.sm.oauth_remotes[provider].get('userDetails').data
            logging.debug("user_data: {0}".format(me))
            return { 'name' : me['name'], 'email' : me['email'], 'id' : me['user_name'], 'username' : me['user_name'], 'first_name':'', 'last_name':''}
    ...
```

This file must be located at the same directory than `superset_config.py` with the name
`custom_sso_security_manager.py`. Finally, add the following 2 lines to `superset_config.py`:

```
from custom_sso_security_manager import CustomSsoSecurityManager
CUSTOM_SECURITY_MANAGER = CustomSsoSecurityManager
```

**Notes**

- The redirect URL will be `https://<superset-webserver>/oauth-authorized/<provider-name>`
  When configuring an OAuth2 authorization provider if needed. For instance, the redirect URL will
  be `https://<superset-webserver>/oauth-authorized/egaSSO` for the above configuration.

- If an OAuth2 authorization server supports OpenID Connect 1.0, you could configure its configuration
  document URL only without providing `api_base_url`, `access_token_url`, `authorize_url` and other
  required options like user info endpoint, jwks uri etc. For instance:
  ```python
  OAUTH_PROVIDERS = [
    {   'name':'egaSSO',
        'token_key':'access_token', # Name of the token in the response of access_token_url
        'icon':'fa-address-card',   # Icon for the provider
        'remote_app': {
            'client_id':'myClientId',  # Client Id (Identify Superset application)
            'client_secret':'MySecret', # Secret for this Client Id (Identify Superset application)
            'server_metadata_url': 'https://myAuthorizationServer/.well-known/openid-configuration'
        }
    }
  ]
  ```

### Flask app Configuration Hook

`FLASK_APP_MUTATOR` is a configuration function that can be provided in your environment, receives
the app object and can alter it in any way. For example, add `FLASK_APP_MUTATOR` into your
`superset_config.py` to setup session cookie expiration time to 24 hours:

```
def make_session_permanent():
    '''
    Enable maxAge for the cookie 'session'
    '''
    session.permanent = True

# Set up max age of session to 24 hours
PERMANENT_SESSION_LIFETIME = timedelta(hours=24)
def FLASK_APP_MUTATOR(app: Flask) -> None:
    app.before_request_funcs.setdefault(None, []).append(make_session_permanent)
```

### Feature Flags

To support a diverse set of users, Superset has some features that are not enabled by default. For
example, some users have stronger security restrictions, while some others may not. So Superset
allow users to enable or disable some features by config. For feature owners, you can add optional
functionalities in Superset, but will be only affected by a subset of users.

You can enable or disable features with flag from `superset_config.py`:

```python
FEATURE_FLAGS = {
    'CLIENT_CACHE': False,
    'ENABLE_EXPLORE_JSON_CSRF_PROTECTION': False,
    'PRESTO_EXPAND_DATA': False,
}
```

A current list of feature flags can be found in `RESOURCES/FEATURE_FLAGS.md`

### SIP 15

[Superset Improvement Proposal 15](https://github.com/apache/superset/issues/6360) aims to
ensure that time intervals are handled in a consistent and transparent manner for both the Druid and
SQLAlchemy connectors.

Prior to SIP-15 SQLAlchemy used inclusive endpoints however these may behave like exclusive for
string columns (due to lexicographical ordering) if no formatting was defined and the column
formatting did not conform to an ISO 8601 date-time (refer to the SIP for details).

To remedy this rather than having to define the date/time format for every non-IS0 8601 date-time
column, once can define a default column mapping on a per database level via the `extra` parameter:

```
{
    "python_date_format_by_column_name": {
        "ds": "%Y-%m-%d"
    }
}
```

**New Deployments**

All new deployments should enable SIP-15 by setting this value in `superset_config.py`:

```
SIP_15_ENABLED = True

```

**Existing Deployments**

Given that it is not apparent whether the chart creator was aware of the time range inconsistencies
(and adjusted the endpoints accordingly) changing the behavior of all charts is overly aggressive.
Instead SIP-15 proivides a soft transistion allowing producers (chart owners) to see the impact of
the proposed change and adjust their charts accordingly.

Prior to enabling SIP-15, existing deployments should communicate to their users the impact of the
change and define a grace period end date (exclusive of course) after which all charts will conform
to the [start, end) interval.

```python
from dateime import date

SIP_15_ENABLED = True
SIP_15_GRACE_PERIOD_END = date(<YYYY>, <MM>, <DD>)
```

To aid with transparency the current endpoint behavior is explicitly called out in the chart time
range (post SIP-15 this will be [start, end) for all connectors and databases). One can override the
defaults on a per database level via the `extra` parameter.

```python
{
    "time_range_endpoints": ["inclusive", "inclusive"]
}
```

Note in a future release the interim SIP-15 logic will be removed (including the
`time_grain_endpoints` form-data field) via a code change and Alembic migration.
