docs/src/pages/docs/installation/index.mdx, before:

---
name: Installing Locally Using Docker Compose
menu: Installation and Configuration
route: /docs/installation/installing-superset-using-docker-compose
index: 1
version: 1
---

## Installing Superset Locally Using Docker Compose

The fastest way to try Superset locally is using Docker and Docker Compose on a Linux or Mac OSX
computer. Superset does not have official support for Windows, so we have provided a VM workaround
below.

### 1. Install a Docker Engine and Docker Compose

**Mac OSX**

[Install Docker for Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/), which includes the Docker
engine and a recent version of `docker-compose` out of the box.

Once you have Docker for Mac installed, open up the preferences pane for Docker, go to the
"Resources" section and increase the allocated memory to 6GB. With only the 2GB of RAM allocated by
default, Superset will fail to start.

**Linux**

[Install Docker on Linux](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) by following Docker’s
instructions for whichever flavor of Linux suits you. Because `docker-compose` is not installed as
part of the base Docker installation on Linux, once you have a working engine, follow the
[docker-compose installation instructions](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) for Linux.

**Windows**

Superset is not officially supported on Windows unfortunately. The best option for Windows users to
try out Superset locally is to install an Ubuntu Desktop VM via
[VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) and proceed with the Docker on Linux instructions inside
of that VM. We recommend assigning at least 8GB of RAM to the virtual machine as well as
provisioning a hard drive of at least 40GB, so that there will be enough space for both the OS and
all of the required dependencies.

### 2. Clone Superset's Github repository

[Clone Superset's repo](https://github.com/apache/incubator-superset) in your terminal with the
following command:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/apache/incubator-superset.git
```

Once that command completes successfully, you should see a new `incubator-superset` folder in your
current directory.

### 3. Launch Superset Through Docker Compose

Navigate to the folder you created in step 1:

```bash
$ cd incubator-superset
```

Then, run the following command:

```bash
$ docker-compose up
```

You should see a wall of logging output from the containers being launched on your machine. Once
this output slows, you should have a running instance of Superset on your local machine!

### 4. Login to Superset

Your local Superset instance also includes a Postgres server to store your data and is already
pre-loaded with some example datasets that ship with Superset. You can access Superset now via your
web browser by visiting `http://localhost:8088`. Note that many browsers now default to `https` - if
yours is one of them, please make sure it uses `http`.

Log in with the default username and password:

```bash
username: admin
```

```bash
password: admin
```

Congrats! You have successfully installed Superset! Click 'Next' to learn how to connect a database
driver.

Commit message:

chore: add latest tag action (#11148)
* add latest tag action

* update documentation with latest tag info

* Python in docs doesn't need v3 reference

* add check that latest tag is truly a later version

* remove rc from acceptable tags

* move tag script to seperate file

* add a check that the tag exists

docs/src/pages/docs/installation/index.mdx, after:

---
name: Installing Locally Using Docker Compose
menu: Installation and Configuration
route: /docs/installation/installing-superset-using-docker-compose
index: 1
version: 1
---

## Installing Superset Locally Using Docker Compose

The fastest way to try Superset locally is using Docker and Docker Compose on a Linux or Mac OSX
computer. Superset does not have official support for Windows, so we have provided a VM workaround
below.

### 1. Install a Docker Engine and Docker Compose

**Mac OSX**

[Install Docker for Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/), which includes the Docker
engine and a recent version of `docker-compose` out of the box.

Once you have Docker for Mac installed, open up the preferences pane for Docker, go to the
"Resources" section and increase the allocated memory to 6GB. With only the 2GB of RAM allocated by
default, Superset will fail to start.

**Linux**

[Install Docker on Linux](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) by following Docker’s
instructions for whichever flavor of Linux suits you. Because `docker-compose` is not installed as
part of the base Docker installation on Linux, once you have a working engine, follow the
[docker-compose installation instructions](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) for Linux.

**Windows**

Superset is not officially supported on Windows unfortunately. The best option for Windows users to
try out Superset locally is to install an Ubuntu Desktop VM via
[VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) and proceed with the Docker on Linux instructions inside
of that VM. We recommend assigning at least 8GB of RAM to the virtual machine as well as
provisioning a hard drive of at least 40GB, so that there will be enough space for both the OS and
all of the required dependencies.

### 2. Clone Superset's Github repository

[Clone Superset's repo](https://github.com/apache/incubator-superset) in your terminal with the
following command:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/apache/incubator-superset.git
```

Once that command completes successfully, you should see a new `incubator-superset` folder in your
current directory.

We recommend that you check out and run the code from the last tagged release:

```bash
$ git checkout latest
```

### 3. Launch Superset Through Docker Compose

Navigate to the folder you created in step 1:

```bash
$ cd incubator-superset
```

Then, run the following command:

```bash
$ docker-compose up
```

You should see a wall of logging output from the containers being launched on your machine. Once
this output slows, you should have a running instance of Superset on your local machine!

### 4. Log in to Superset

Your local Superset instance also includes a Postgres server to store your data and is already
pre-loaded with some example datasets that ship with Superset. You can access Superset now via your
web browser by visiting `http://localhost:8088`. Note that many browsers now default to `https` - if
yours is one of them, please make sure it uses `http`.

Log in with the default username and password:

```bash
username: admin
```

```bash
password: admin
```

Congrats! You have successfully installed Superset! Click 'Next' to learn how to connect a database
driver.
